Muhammad al- masri joins me now he's
professor of media studies at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies good to
have you with us so last night I spoke
with a doctor inside a nassa hospital
who he recounted to me how he had tried
to comply with the Israeli instructions
they received yesterday to leave nassa
hospital he left with some people who
were inside the hospital reached an
Israeli checkpoint and he was told that
the medical staff should stay in the
hospital so apparently the Israelis know
there are medical staff there are
patients inside and today we wake up to
the news that this hospital has been
shelled how do we make sense of
that well I mean it's a new story but in
in some ways it's the same story uh for
4 and a half months uh Israel has been
seeking to make life unlivable for
Palestinians and part of that operation
has involved uh attacking uh attacking
hospitals um this is uh has been made
clear by human rights groups uh evidence
on the ground and it's been mentioned by
South Africa uh at the at the icj so
this is consistent with with what
Israel's been doing for four and a half
months and now we're seeing even Israeli
allies like Canada Australia New Zealand
calling for a ceasefire any sign that
Israel might be
listening no no indication uh at all uh
I would say that you know these calls
are are are certainly good and and
welcomed but uh at the end of the day uh
the United States holds the cards and um
at present and as has been the case for
4 and a half months the US is entirely
in Israel's Corner uh they are not
calling for a ceasefire they don't they
don't desire a ceasefire they want
Israel to to uh continue with its with
its Mission which I think uh my
interpretation of what they've been
doing for 4 and a half months is that
this is all part of their greater Israel
plan they will not finish until they've
uh ethnically cleansed uh
Gaza is Israel observing the
instructions of the icj's preliminary
ruling no I think actually the they've
become even more Brazen in some ways
over the last uh several weeks I mean
that was one of the questions that I
that I had you know several weeks ago
when I I sat up here uh on El jazer and
asked uh whether Israel would sort of
moderate Its Behavior in Gaza in light
of what's Happening uh at the ha uh but
they haven't they've continued to Target
hospitals they've continued to Target
civilian infrastructures we saw the we
saw the rafah uh Massacre a few days ago
they've continued to Target journalists
two El jazer journalists killed uh this
week and so in many ways they uh their
operation in Gaza has become even more
Brazen let let me present to you what I
imagine some of the supporters of the
Netanyahu Administration will say that
they have issued instructions to the
Army to to try and organize or prompt an
evacuation of people in Rafa are we
seeing that as we wake up to news of
more strikes on hospitals no we're not
seeing that and it's actually an
impossibility because there's no safe
place uh in Gaza every single uh
independent Observer or expert uh
especially people who are on the ground
will tell you that there is no safe
place to go in Gaza and in the past when
there were at at least in theory some
safe sites or safe zones Israel bombed
those safe zones so really there is only
one place for uh for uh gazans to go
right now and that is outside of Gaza
that is into Egypt Aid has been
disrupted for about a week is this
becoming a battle for survival for those
Palestinians bottled up in a tiny part
of Gaza oh there's no question I mean
the the human rights organizations have
been warning of uh Mass starvation now
for for a couple of months so uh the
situation is is dire uh more and more
Palestinians are are dying of entirely
preventable diseases related to
malnutrition and it's only going to get
worse as as this uh you know this crisis
continues and just to put this in
context we're talking about uh people
who have endured Decades of
occupation and what international human
rights groups in including Israeli Human
Rights group b Salam call apartheid
right this is not a battle between two
equal armies it's actually worse than
apartheid I like what um nom Chomsky
said when he was asked why don't you use
the word apartheid to describe what
what's happening to the Palestinians he
said the reason I don't use the word
aparti is because it's much worse than
aparti and Desmond Tutu the former South
African Archbishop uh who was obviously
an expert in apartheid uh when he was
asked this a similar question he said
that that what the Palestinians have
been enduring uh for decades is worse uh
than uh apartheid South Africa so it's
worse than apartheid and I think we
shouldn't forget the situation in Gaza
as has been the case for uh really for
uh many many years it's been uh a
concentration camp those are the words
that have been used by Israeli experts
like giora Island a top Israeli security
official like uh baroo Kimberling a top
Israeli a former uh sociologist at the
Hebrew University Gaza is an a
concentration camp has been for for for
a long time and in that context the
Palestinians now are subjected to uh a
full-on uh genocide all right thank you
so much for your analysis on that